# 定位布局
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position
## 高度的百分比问题
html文档是从上到下流式地显示在浏览器中，所以所有涉及垂直方向的百分比设置，都有一个限制： 父容器的高度是确定的，百分比才有意义，margin, padding之类的也是一样.
在父容器的高度不确定的情况下，设置高度百分比是不会产生任何效果的.

经常会遇到一种设置高度的问题：只知道该元素上下左右到父容器的距离或百分比, 这种情况下需要使用绝对定位的方法来间接设置高度.

## responsive问题
现在的前端开发非常强调一个问题: 页面的responsive. 直接给元素设置像素尺寸通常是不太理想的.
通常的解决办法是同时使用min/max，百分比和media query综合起来实现responsive问题.
即使实现一个再小的组件，也应该时刻考虑在不同分辨率下的显示效果，这一点很重要.

## position
### static
默认值, 正常的文档流. top, right, bottom, left, z-index 属性值无效.

### fixed
元素脱离了正常的文档流，该元素在正常的文档流中布局中不占任何空间.
fixed
 It is positioned relative to the initial containing block established by the viewport, except when one of its ancestors has a transform, perspective, or filter property set to something other than none (see the CSS Transforms Spec), in which case that ancestor behaves as the containing block. (Note that there are browser inconsistencies with perspective and filter contributing to containing block formation.) Its final position is determined by the values of top, right, bottom, and left.
    This value always creates a new stacking context. In printed documents, the element is placed in the same position on every page.
### relative
### absolute




    A positioned element is an element whose computed position value is either relative, absolute, fixed, or sticky. (In other words, it's anything except static.)

    A relatively positioned element is an element whose computed position value is relative. The top and bottom properties specify the vertical offset from its normal position; the left and right properties specify the horizontal offset.

    An absolutely positioned element is an element whose computed position value is absolute or fixed. The top, right, bottom, and left properties specify offsets from the edges of the element's containing block. (The containing block is the ancestor relative to which the element is positioned.) If the element has margins, they are added to the offset.

    A stickily positioned element is an element whose computed position value is sticky. It's treated as relatively positioned until its containing block crosses a specified threshold (such as setting top to value other than auto) within its flow root (or the container it scrolls within), at which point it is treated as "stuck" until meeting the opposite edge of its containing block.


Most of the time, absolutely positioned elements that have height and width set to auto are sized so as to fit their contents. However, non-replaced, absolutely positioned elements can be made to fill the available vertical space by specifying both top and bottom and leaving height unspecified (that is, auto). They can likewise be made to fill the available horizontal space by specifying both left and right and leaving width as auto.

Except for the case just described (of absolutely positioned elements filling the available space):

    If both top and bottom are specified (technically, not auto), top wins.
    If both left and right are specified, left wins when direction is ltr (English, horizontal Japanese, etc.) and right wins when direction is rtl (Persian, Arabic, Hebrew, etc.).


Syntax

The position property is specified as a single keyword chosen from the list of values below.
Values


relative
    The element is positioned according to the normal flow of the document, and then offset relative to itself based on the values of top, right, bottom, and left. The offset does not affect the position of any other elements; thus, the space given for the element in the page layout is the same as if position were static.
    This value creates a new stacking context when the value of z-index is not auto. Its effect on table-*-group, table-row, table-column, table-cell, and table-caption elements is undefined.
absolute
    The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. It is positioned relative to its closest positioned ancestor, if any; otherwise, it is placed relative to the initial containing block. Its final position is determined by the values of top, right, bottom, and left.
    This value creates a new stacking context when the value of z-index is not auto. The margins of absolutely positioned boxes do not collapse with other margins.

sticky
    The element is positioned according to the normal flow of the document, and then offset relative to its nearest scrolling ancestor and containing block (nearest block-level ancestor), including table-related elements, based on the values of top, right, bottom, and left. The offset does not affect the position of any other elements.
    This value always creates a new stacking context. Note that a sticky element "sticks" to its nearest ancestor that has a "scrolling mechanism" (created when overflow is hidden, scroll, auto, or overlay), even if that ancestor isn't the nearest actually scrolling ancestor. This effectively inhibits any "sticky" behavior (see the Github issue on W3C CSSWG). 





