# 参考文章：
* https://observablehq.com/@d3/d3-hierarchy
* https://github.com/d3/d3-hierarchy



# 树形层级结构
* 每一个节点都有一个 parent 节点，除了 root 节点。
* 每一个节点都有一个或多个 children，除了 leave 节点。
* 每个节点可以有额外的 data 的节点。   

如果数据已经具备好这个结构，可以直接传递给 hierachy. 
```ts
import { hierarchy } from 'd3';
```


If your nested data uses a different property name for its array of children, you can specify a children accessor function as the second argument to d3.hierarchy. Or, you can even adapt other nested data structures, such as nested arrays. Children must be specified as an iterable.

If you have tabular data, such as from comma-separated values (CSV), you can arrange it into a hierarchy using d3.stratify. Each input object d represents a node in the tree, and must have a unique identifier and a parent identifier (by default, d.id and d.parentId respectively).

Both d3.stratify and d3.hierarchy return instances of d3.hierarchy, and thus support the same methods.

Each node wraps the input data; you can access the input data using node.data.




# hierarchy layout

* cluster

D3’s cluster layout produces node-link diagrams with leaf nodes at equal depth. These are less compact than tidy trees, but are useful for dendrograms, hierarchical clustering and phylogenetic trees. See also the radial variant.

* tree
D3’s tree layout implements the Reingold–Tilford “tidy” algorithm for constructing hierarchical node-link diagrams, improved to run in linear time by Buchheim et al. Tidy trees are typically more compact than cluster dendrograms, which place all leaves at the same level. See also the radial variant.



# d3.tree()


Creates a new tree layout with default settings.

# tree(root)

Lays out the specified root hierarchy, assigning the following properties on root and its descendants:

    node.x - the x-coordinate of the node
    node.y - the y-coordinate of the node

The coordinates x and y represent an arbitrary coordinate system; for example, you can treat x as an angle and y as a radius to produce a radial layout. You may want to call root.sort before passing the hierarchy to the tree layout.

# tree.size([size])

If size is specified, sets this tree layout’s size to the specified two-element array of numbers [width, height] and returns this tree layout. If size is not specified, returns the current layout size, which defaults to [1, 1]. A layout size of null indicates that a node size will be used instead. The coordinates x and y represent an arbitrary coordinate system; for example, to produce a radial layout, a size of [360, radius] corresponds to a breadth of 360° and a depth of radius.

# tree.nodeSize([size])

If size is specified, sets this tree layout’s node size to the specified two-element array of numbers [width, height] and returns this tree layout. If size is not specified, returns the current node size, which defaults to null. A node size of null indicates that a layout size will be used instead. When a node size is specified, the root node is always positioned at ⟨0, 0⟩.


# tree.separation([separation])

If separation is specified, sets the separation accessor to the specified function and returns this tree layout. If separation is not specified, returns the current separation accessor, which defaults to:

```ts
function separation(a, b) {
  return a.parent == b.parent ? 1 : 2;
}
```

A variation that is more appropriate for radial layouts reduces the separation gap proportionally to the radius:

```ts
function separation(a, b) {
  return (a.parent == b.parent ? 1 : 2) / a.depth;
}
```

The separation accessor is used to separate neighboring nodes. The separation function is passed two nodes a and b, and must return the desired separation. The nodes are typically siblings, though the nodes may be more distantly related if the layout decides to place such nodes adjacent.





* treemap
* partition
* Pack







