


When you make the .txt element inline-block, it is taken into the text flow of the parent .btn element. At that point, the line-height of .btn kicks in, which is larger than the height of the .txt element.

So, add .btn {line-height: 10px;} (for example) and your problem is fixed. I saw you already tried to influence the line-height of the inner .txt element, so you were pretty close with your attempts. Adjusting the font-size would work as well, since the default line-height is formula-based on the font-size. Anyway, the key is to do that on the parent element, not the child element.

You don't have this problem when you make the inner element a block, because then there's no text-like content, so there's no line-height applied at all.



inline-block is brilliant and convenient for so many cases. But they come with one annoying pitfall: unnecessary whitespace. As you're nesting an inline-block within an inline-block, that results in a white-space disaster. You can read all about whitespace and inline-blocks on David Walsh's blog.

There are many ways to handle this, but my favorite (and most widely supported) solution is setting this to the parent inline-block element:




I remember being a young developer during the Internet Explorer 6 days and desperately wanting IE to adopt display: inline-block.  The inline-block value is incredibly useful when wanting to control margin and padding on "inline" elements without the need to `block and float` them.  One problem that arrises when you use inline-block is that whitespace in HTML becomes visual space on screen.  Gross.  There are a few ways to remove that space;  some of them are just as gross, one is reasonably nicer.




Solution 0: No Space Between Elements

The only 100% solution to this issue is to not put whitespace between those elements in the HTML source code:

<ul><li>Item content</li><li>Item content</li><li>Item content</li></ul>

Of course this is a mess to maintain but it's practical, logical, and most importantly...reliable.
Solution 1:  font-size: 0 on Parent

The best white-space solution is to set a font-size of 0 on the parent to the inline block elements.  So if you had a <UL> with inline-block <LI>'s, you'd do this:

.inline-block-list { /* ul or ol with this class */
	font-size: 0;
}

.inline-block-list li {
	font-size: 14px; /* put the font-size back */
}

To counteract the parent font-size setting, you must set a font-size for the list items, but that's usually fairly simple.   The only time it wouldn't be simple is if you're in a wicked cascade of relative units you can't easily calculate.  In most cases, however, this will be exactly what you need. Update: unless you care to support Android WebKit.
Solution 2:  HTML Comments

This solution is a bit gangsta but also works.  Using HTML comments as spacers between the elements works just as placing no space between elements would:

<ul>
	<li>Item content</li><!--
 --><li>Item content</li><!--
 --><li>Item content</li>
</ul>

In a word...gross.  In two words...really gross.  In three words...well, you get it.  But it works!
Solution 3:  Negative Margin

Much like solution two, this is regrettable.  You can take advantage of inline-block's flexibility to use a negative margin to negate the space:

.inline-block-list li {
	margin-left: -4px;
}

This is the worst solution because you have to account for variable, sometimes unpredictable spacing.  Avoid at all costs.
Solution 4:  Dropping Closing Angle

Another HTML-based hack solution is to simply place the closing > next to the start of the next tag:

<ul>
	<li>Item content</li
 ><li>Item content</li
 ><li>Item content</li>
</ul>

Not as ugly as the HTML comment hack but I know I'd probably remove that whitespace and not think about why it was there originally.

None of these solutions are ideal but the only alternative is not spacing/indenting your HTML which is also a crap solution.  This isn't a "be careful what you wish for scenario" because inline-block is still incredibly useful, but it is important that developers know how to deal with the space that comes with using it.