# WAI-ARIA （Web Accessibility Initiative - Accessible Rich Internet Applications）
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/WAI-ARIA_basics

W3C 规范，定义额外的 HTML 属性用于提供额外的语义，提升 accessiblity， 主要有三方面：

* Roles： 定义了元素的角色，大部分都有 HTML5 的元素与其对应，例如：role="navigation" (<nav>) or role="complementary" (<aside>)， 也有很多描述不同的页面结构的没有对应元素，如： role="banner", role="search", role="tabgroup", role="tab", etc.
    
* Properties： 定义了元素的属性，提供额外的语义或信息，例如： aria-required="true" 说明某个 input 需要被填充检验, aria-labelledby="label——ID" 允许多个元素共享一个 ID 的 label （不方便使用`<label for="input">`）。例如在多个 table cell 中， 为每个的图片添加 alt。   
    
* States： 特殊的元素属性，相对与 properties 而言，它可以动态变化，properties 不能。 例如，aria-disabled="true", 告诉 screen reader 某个元素是 disabled。 

注意：WAI-ARIA 属性不会对 web 页面造成任何影响，它只为 accessibility API 提供信息。 尽管这些属性可以用作 css 选择器。   



An important point about WAI-ARIA attributes is that they don't affect anything about the web page, except for the information exposed by the browser's accessibility APIs (where screenreaders get their information from). WAI-ARIA doesn't affect webpage structure, the DOM, etc., although the attributes can be useful for selecting elements by CSS.


When should you use WAI-ARIA?

We talked about some of the problems that prompted WAI-ARIA to be created earlier on, but essentially, there are four main areas that WAI-ARIA is useful in:

    Signposts/Landmarks: ARIA's role attribute values can act as landmarks that either replicate the semantics of HTML5 elements (e.g. <nav>), or go beyond HTML5 semantics to provide signposts to different functional areas, e.g search, tabgroup, tab, listbox, etc.
    Dynamic content updates: Screenreaders tend to have difficulty with reporting constantly changing content; with ARIA we can use aria-live to inform screenreader users when an area of content is updated, e.g. via XMLHttpRequest, or DOM APIs.
    Enhancing keyboard accessibility: There are built-in HTML elements that have native keyboard accessibility; when other elements are used along with JavaScript to simulate similar interactions, keyboard accessibility and screenreader reporting suffers as a result. Where this is unavoidable, WAI-ARIA provides a means to allow other elements to receive focus (using tabindex).
    Accessibility of non-semantic controls: When a series of nested <div>s along with CSS/JavaScript is used to create a complex UI-feature, or a native control is greatly enhanced/changed via JavaScript, accessibility can suffer — screenreader users will find it difficult to work out what the feature does if there are no semantics or other clues. In these situations, ARIA can help to provide what's missing with a combination of roles like button, listbox, or tabgroup, and properties like aria-required or aria-posinset to provide further clues as to functionality.

One thing to remember though — you should only use WAI-ARIA when you need to! Ideally, you should always use native HTML features to provide the semantics required by screenreaders to tell their users what is going on. Sometimes this isn't possible, either because you have limited control over the code, or because you are creating something complex that doesn't have an easy HTML element to implement it. In such cases, WAI-ARIA can be a valuable accessibility enhancing tool.

But again, only use it when necessary!

Note: Also, try to make sure you test your site with a variety of real users — non-disabled people, people using screenreaders, people using keyboard navigation, etc. They will have better insights than you about how well it works.



